README.md, before:

# Flask-VueJs-Template 🌶️✌

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/gtalarico/flask-vuejs-template.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gtalarico/flask-vuejs-template)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/gtalarico/flask-vuejs-template/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/gtalarico/flask-vuejs-template)

_Flask + Vue.js Web Application Template_

![Vue Logo](/docs/vue-logo.png "Vue Logo") ![Flask Logo](/docs/flask-logo.png "Flask Logo")

## Features
* Minimal Flask 1.0 App
* [Flask-RestPlus](http://flask-restplus.readthedocs.io) API with class-based secure resource routing
* Starter [PyTest](http://pytest.org) test suite
* [vue-cli 3](https://github.com/vuejs/vue-cli/blob/dev/docs/README.md) + yarn
* [Vuex](https://vuex.vuejs.org/)
* [Vue Router](https://router.vuejs.org/)
* [Axios](https://github.com/axios/axios/) for backend communication
* Sample Vue [Filters](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/filters.html)
* Heroku Configuration with one-click deployment + Gunicorn

## Demo
[Live Demo](https://flask-vuejs-template.herokuapp.com/#/api)

## Alternatives

If this setup is not what you are looking for, here are some similar projects:

* [oleg-agapov/flask-vue-spa](https://github.com/oleg-agapov/flask-vue-spa)
* [testdrivenio/flask-vue-crud](https://github.com/testdrivenio/flask-vue-crud)

#### Old Template

This template was updated to use a flatter folder structure and use yarn instead of npm.
You can now run `yarn serve` as well as other yarn commands from the template root directory.
The old template will be kept in the [npm-template branch](https://github.com/gtalarico/flask-vuejs-template/tree/npm-template) but will not be maintained. 

#### Django

Prefer Django? Checkout the [gtalarico/django-vue-template](https://github.com/gtalarico/django-vue-template)

## Template Structure

The template uses Flask & Flask-RestPlus to create a minimal REST style API,
and let's VueJs + vue-cli handle the front end and asset pipline.
Data from the python server to the Vue application is passed by making Ajax requests.

### Application Structure

#### Rest Api

The Api is served using a Flask blueprint at `/api/` using Flask RestPlus class-based
resource routing.

#### Client Application

A Flask view is used to serve the `index.html` as an entry point into the Vue app at the endpoint `/`.

The template uses vue-cli 3 and assumes Vue Cli & Webpack will manage front-end resources and assets, so it does overwrite template delimiter.

The Vue instance is preconfigured with Filters, Vue-Router, Vuex; each of these can easilly removed if they are not desired.

#### Important Files

| Location             |  Content                                   |
|----------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| `/app`               | Flask Application                          |
| `/app/api`           | Flask Rest Api (`/api`)                    |
| `/app/client.py`     | Flask Client (`/`)                         |
| `/src`               | Vue App .                                  |
| `/src/main.js`       | JS Application Entry Point                 |
| `/public/index.html` | Html Application Entry Point (`/`)         |
| `/public/static`     | Static Assets                              |
| `/dist/`             | Bundled Assets Output (generated at `yarn build` |


## Installation

##### Before you start

Before getting started, you should have the following installed and running:

- [X] Yarn - [instructions](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install#mac-stable)
- [X] Vue Cli 3 - [instructions](https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/installation.html)
- [X] Python 3
- [X] Pipenv (optional)
- [X] Heroku Cli (if deploying to Heroku)

##### Template and Dependencies

* Clone this repository:

	```
	$ git clone https://github.com/gtalarico/flask-vuejs-template.git
	```

* Setup virtual environment, install dependencies, and activate it:

	```
	$ pipenv install --dev
	$ pipenv shell
	```

* Install JS dependencies

	```
	$ yarn install
	```


## Development Server

Run Flask Api development server:

```
$ python run.py
```

From another tab in the same directory, start the webpack dev server:

```
$ yarn serve
```

The Vuejs application will be served from `localhost:8080` and the Flask Api
and static files will be served from `localhost:5000`.

The dual dev-server setup allows you to take advantage of
webpack's development server with hot module replacement.

Proxy config in `vue.config.js` is used to route the requests
back to Flask's Api on port 5000.

If you would rather run a single dev server, you can run Flask's
development server only on `:5000`, but you have to build build the Vue app first
and the page will not reload on changes.

```
$ yarn build
$ python run.py
```


## Production Server

This template is configured to work with Heroku + Gunicorn and it's pre-configured
to have Heroku build the application before releasing it.

#### JS Build Process

Heroku's nodejs buidlpack will handle install for all the dependencies from the `packages.json` file.
It will then trigger the `postinstall` command which calls `yarn build`.
This will create the bundled `dist` folder which will be served by whitenoise.

#### Python Build Process

The python buildpack will detect the `Pipfile` and install all the python dependencies.

#### Production Sever Setup

Here are the commands we need to run to get things setup on the Heroku side:

	```
	$ heroku apps:create flask-vuejs-template-demo
	$ heroku git:remote --app flask-vuejs-template-demo
	$ heroku buildpacks:add --index 1 heroku/nodejs
	$ heroku buildpacks:add --index 2 heroku/python
	$ heroku config:set FLASK_ENV=production
	$ heroku config:set FLASK_SECRET=SuperSecretKey

	$ git push heroku
	```

### Heroku deployment - One Click Deploy

[![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://heroku.com/deploy?template=https://github.com/gtalarico/flask-vuejs-template)

Commit message:

feat: replace vue-cli with vite

README.md, after:

# Flask-VueJs-Template 🌶️✌

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/gtalarico/flask-vuejs-template.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gtalarico/flask-vuejs-template)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/gtalarico/flask-vuejs-template/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/gtalarico/flask-vuejs-template)

_Flask + Vue.js Web Application Template_

![Vue Logo](/docs/vue-logo.png "Vue Logo") ![Flask Logo](/docs/flask-logo.png "Flask Logo")

## Features
* Minimal Flask 1.0 App
* [Flask-RestPlus](http://flask-restplus.readthedocs.io) API with class-based secure resource routing
* Starter [PyTest](http://pytest.org) test suite
* [Vite](https://vitejs.dev) + yarn
* [Vuex](https://vuex.vuejs.org/)
* [Vue Router](https://router.vuejs.org/)
* [Axios](https://github.com/axios/axios/) for backend communication
* Sample Vue [Filters](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/filters.html)
* Heroku Configuration with one-click deployment + Gunicorn

## Demo
[Live Demo](https://flask-vuejs-template.herokuapp.com/#/api)

## Alternatives

If this setup is not what you are looking for, here are some similar projects:

* [oleg-agapov/flask-vue-spa](https://github.com/oleg-agapov/flask-vue-spa)
* [testdrivenio/flask-vue-crud](https://github.com/testdrivenio/flask-vue-crud)

#### Old Template

This template was updated to use a flatter folder structure and use yarn instead of npm.
You can now run `yarn serve` as well as other yarn commands from the template root directory.
The old template will be kept in the [npm-template branch](https://github.com/gtalarico/flask-vuejs-template/tree/npm-template) but will not be maintained. 

#### Django

Prefer Django? Checkout the [gtalarico/django-vue-template](https://github.com/gtalarico/django-vue-template)

## Template Structure

The template uses Flask & Flask-RestPlus to create a minimal REST style API,
and lets Vue.js with Vite handle the front end and asset pipeline.
Data from the python server to the Vue application is passed by making Ajax requests.

### Application Structure

#### Rest Api

The Api is served using a Flask blueprint at `/api/` using Flask RestPlus class-based
resource routing.

#### Client Application

A Flask view is used to serve the `index.html` as an entry point into the Vue app at the endpoint `/`.

The template uses Vite for front-end development and assumes Vite will manage front-end resources and assets, so it does overwrite template delimiter.

The Vue instance is preconfigured with Filters, Vue-Router, Vuex; each of these can easilly removed if they are not desired.

#### Important Files

| Location             |  Content                                   |
|----------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| `/app`               | Flask Application                          |
| `/app/api`           | Flask Rest Api (`/api`)                    |
| `/app/client.py`     | Flask Client (`/`)                         |
| `/src`               | Vue App .                                  |
| `/src/main.js`       | JS Application Entry Point                 |
| `/index.html`        | Html Application Entry Point (`/`)         |
| `/public`            | Static Assets                              |
| `/dist/`             | Bundled Assets Output (generated at `yarn build` |


## Installation

##### Before you start

Before getting started, you should have the following installed and running:

- [X] Yarn - [instructions](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install#mac-stable)
- [X] Vite - [instructions](https://vitejs.dev/guide/)
- [X] Python 3
- [X] Pipenv (optional)
- [X] Heroku Cli (if deploying to Heroku)

##### Template and Dependencies

* Clone this repository:

	```
	$ git clone https://github.com/gtalarico/flask-vuejs-template.git
	```

* Setup virtual environment, install dependencies, and activate it:

	```
	$ pipenv install --dev
	$ pipenv shell
	```

* Install JS dependencies

	```
	$ yarn install
	```


## Development Server

Run Flask Api development server:

```
$ python run.py
```

From another tab in the same directory, start the Vite dev server:

```
$ yarn dev
```

The Vuejs application will be served from `localhost:8080` and the Flask Api
and static files will be served from `localhost:5000`.

The dual dev-server setup allows you to take advantage of
Vite's development server with hot module replacement.

Proxy config in `vite.config.js` is used to route the requests
back to Flask's Api on port 5000.

If you would rather run a single dev server, you can run Flask's
development server only on `:5000`, but you have to build build the Vue app first
and the page will not reload on changes.

```
$ yarn build
$ python run.py
```


## Production Server

This template is configured to work with Heroku + Gunicorn and it's pre-configured
to have Heroku build the application before releasing it.

#### JS Build Process

Heroku's nodejs buidlpack will handle install for all the dependencies from the `packages.json` file.
It will then trigger the `postinstall` command which calls `yarn build`.
This will create the bundled `dist` folder which will be served by whitenoise.

#### Python Build Process

The python buildpack will detect the `Pipfile` and install all the python dependencies.

#### Production Sever Setup

Here are the commands we need to run to get things setup on the Heroku side:

	```
	$ heroku apps:create flask-vuejs-template-demo
	$ heroku git:remote --app flask-vuejs-template-demo
	$ heroku buildpacks:add --index 1 heroku/nodejs
	$ heroku buildpacks:add --index 2 heroku/python
	$ heroku config:set FLASK_ENV=production
	$ heroku config:set FLASK_SECRET=SuperSecretKey

	$ git push heroku
	```

### Heroku deployment - One Click Deploy

[![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://heroku.com/deploy?template=https://github.com/gtalarico/flask-vuejs-template)
